# sonosthesia-unity-audio-pipeline

Example unity integration of baked audio analysis generated using the python based CLI tool [sonosthesia-audio-pipeline](https://github.com/jbat100/sonosthesia-audio-pipeline).

## Dependencies

The following Unity packages are used

- [com.sonosthesia.signal](https://github.com/jbat100/sonosthesia-unity-packages/tree/main/packages/com.sonosthesia.signal) the fundamental building block of the sonosthesia unity packages, provides access to streams of typed data using the observer pattern implemented by [UniRx](https://github.com/neuecc/UniRx)

- [com.sonosthesia.audio](https://github.com/jbat100/sonosthesia-unity-packages/tree/main/packages/com.sonosthesia.audio) provides data containers for analysis data with no dependencies on underlying data formats or channels (msgpack, unity assets, websockets etc...). It allows analysis data to be sent to signals (see [com.sonosthesia.signal](https://github.com/jbat100/sonosthesia-unity-packages/tree/main/packages/com.sonosthesia.signal))

- [com.sonosthesia.packaudio](https://github.com/jbat100/sonosthesia-unity-packages/tree/main/packages/com.sonosthesia.packaudio) provides asset importers which allows audio analysis files to be decoded and loaded into structures which can be used by [com.sonosthesia.audio](https://github.com/jbat100/sonosthesia-unity-packages/tree/main/packages/com.sonosthesia.audio)

- [com.sonosthesia.processing](https://github.com/jbat100/sonosthesia-unity-packages/tree/main/packages/com.sonosthesia.processing) provides a number of processing algorithms used to smooth the audio analysis signals, removing their jittery / jerky character, making them better suited to drive natural looking visuals.


## Getting started

First you need to generate analysis files using the [sonosthesia-audio-pipeline](https://github.com/jbat100/sonosthesia-audio-pipeline). Refer to the project README for installation and usage.


Analysis `.xaa` files contain both continuous data computed on every audio frame with 512 sample hop size, and discreet data such as detected peaks. Future evolutions may contain additional data, such as bars, notes, mood, keys etc... An asset importer is provided along with custom timeline tracks which allow analysis data to be routed to signals.

- Create Unity timeline tracks available under `Sonosthsia.Audio/XAATrack` in the unity timeline. You can then drag and drop any .xaa file on to the track.

- Add one of the concrete `XAAHost` subclasses as component to a game object and bind it to the XAATrack. This is component to which the XAATrack sends analysis data to.

You can drag the `.xaa` file and the XAATrack, aligned with the associated audio file on an audio track. Note you can have multiple `.xaa` files for one audio track in the case where you ran the analysis on separated sources. Based on the host subclass you use:

### XAASignalHost

- Create a `ContinuousAnalysisSignal` and set it as target to the XAAHost. Use a `ContinuousAnalysisSplitter` to drive `FloatSignals`. These signals can then be used to drive any Sonosthesia target. 

- Create a `PeakAnalysisSignal` (note this is a discrete signal) and set it as target to the XAAHost. Use a `PeakAnalysisSplitter` to drive `PeakSignals`. These signals can then be used to drive instantiators or dispatchers.

### XAARelayHost

- Create an `XAARelay` scriptable object (under `Sonosthesia/Relay/XAARelay`) and set it as target the the XAARelayHost. 

- In any Unity scene, create a `XAARelayReceiver` component and set its source as the XAARelay you created.

- Target the outputs of the XAARelayReceiver to signals as described for XAASignalHost

## Demo scenes

A number of demo scenes are provided showing various ways of routing analysis signals. You can alter the timeline to use any audio file and associated `.xaa` files.

### SignalHost

The most basic setup. Using the custom timeline XAATrack to drive signals.

### RelayHost

Relays allow the signals to be routed through scriptable objects so that analysis signals generated by a Unity timeline track in one scene can drive signals in another scene.

## Additional targets

Sonosthesia provides many additional targets which can be driven using the signals generated by baked audio analyses. See additional demo projects such as [deform](https://github.com/jbat100/sonosthesia-unity-demo-deform) for details.